SDXL Dreambooth LoRA Blog (#1665)
huggingface/blog: sdxl_lora_advanced_script.md

<h1>LoRA training scripts of the world, unite!
</h1>

<h2>A community derived guide to some of the SOTA practices for SD-XL Dreambooth LoRA fine tuning
</h2>

<h3>tl;dr
</h3>

We combined the Pivotal Tuning technique used on Replicate's SDXL Cog trainer with the Prodigy optimizer used in the
Kohya trainer (plus a bunch of other optimizations) to achieve very good results on training a Dreambooth LoRA for SDXL.

> [Check out the training script on diffusers]()🧨. [Try it out on Colab]().

Reviewer: We should add the links here

1. Download our trained embeddings from the hub

```
import torch
from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_download, upload_file
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline
from diffusers.models import AutoencoderKL
from safetensors.torch import load_file
pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(
        "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0",
        torch_dtype=torch.float16,
        variant="fp16",
).to("cuda")
# normal LoRA loading
pipe.load_lora_weights("LinoyTsaban/web_y2k_lora", weight_name="pytorch_lora_weights.safetensors")
```

2. Load these into the text encoders

```
# download embeddings
embedding_path = hf_hub_download(repo_id="LinoyTsaban/web_y2k_lora", filename="embeddings.safetensors", repo_type="model")

# load embeddings to the text encoders
state_dict = load_file(embedding_path)

# load embeddings of text_encoder 1 (CLIP ViT-L/14)
pipe.load_textual_inversion(state_dict["clip_l"], token=["<s0>", "<s1>"], text_encoder=pipe.text_encoder, tokenizer=pipe.tokenizer)
# load embeddings of text_encoder 2 (CLIP ViT-G/14)
pipe.load_textual_inversion(state_dict["clip_g"], token=["<s0>", "<s1>"], text_encoder=pipe.text_encoder_2, tokenizer=pipe.tokenizer_2)
```

> 3. Prompt your LoRA!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Load your LoRA and prompt it!
```

```

> prompt="a <s0><s1> webpage about an astronaut riding a horse"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pipe.load_lora_weights("LinoyTsaban/web_y2k_lora", weight_name="pytorch_lora_weights.safetensors")
prompt="a <s0><s1> webpage about an astronaut riding a horse"
```

images = pipe(
    prompt,
    cross_attention_kwargs={"scale": 0.8},
).images
#your output image
images[0]
```
![astronaut_web_y2k](.\assets\dreambooth_lora_sdxl\web_y2k_astronaut.png)

**Comfy UI / AUTOMATIC1111 Inference:**
The new script fully supports textual inversion loading with Comfy UI and AUTOMATIC1111 formats!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<h3>AUTOMATIC1111 / SD.Next</h3>
For AUTOMATIC1111/SD.Next we will load a LoRA and a textual embedding at the same time. For that you can download your `embeddings.safetensors` file from a trained model, rename it (to for example `y2k_emb.safetensors` and include it in your `embeddings` directory. You can also download `diffusers_lora_weights.safetensors` rename it (to for example `y2k.safetensors`) and include it in your `models/lora` directory. 

You can then inference by prompting `a y2k_emb webpage about the movie Mean Girls <lora:y2k:0.9>`. You can use the `y2k_emb` token normally, including increasing its weight by doing `(y2k_emb:1.2)`. 

<h3>ComfyUI</h3>
For ComfyUI you will include your the trained `embeddings.safetensors` in the `models/embeddings` folder, rename it (to for example `y2k_emb.safetensors`) and use it in your prompts like `embedding:y2k_emb`. [Official guide for loading embeddings](https://comfyanonymous.github.io/ComfyUI_examples/textual_inversion_embeddings/). 

For the LoRA, you will include your trained `diffusers_lora_weights.safetensors` rename it (to for example `y2k.safetensors`) and include it in your `models/lora` directory. Then you will load the LoRALoader node and hook that up with your model and CLIP. [Official guide for loading LoRAs](https://comfyanonymous.github.io/ComfyUI_examples/lora/)
```

> <h1>LoRA training scripts of the world, unite!

Author: changed to markdown :)

</h1>

<h2>A community derived guide to some of the SOTA practices for SD-XL Dreambooth LoRA fine tuning
</h2>

<h3>tl;dr
</h3>

We combined the Pivotal Tuning technique used on Replicate's SDXL Cog trainer with the Prodigy optimizer used in the
Kohya trainer (plus a bunch of other optimizations) to achieve very good results on training a Dreambooth LoRA for SDXL.
[Check out the training script on diffusers]()🧨. [Try it out on Colab]().

If you want to skip the technical talk, you can use all the techniques in this blog
and [train on Hugging Face Spaces with a simple UI]() and curated parameters (that you can meddle with).

<h3>Overview
</h3>

LoRA dreambooth fine-tuned stable diffusion xl models achieved incredible results at capturing new concepts using only a
handful of images, while simultaneously maintaining the aesthetic and image quality of sd-xl and requiring relatively
little compute and resources. Check out some of the awesome SD-XL
LoRAs [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/multimodalart/LoraTheExplorer).  
In this blog, we'll review some of the popular practices and techniques to make your LoRA finetune go brrr, and how you

> can use them now with diffusers!

Author: both :)

1. Techniques/tricks
    1. Pivotal tuning
    2. Adaptive optimizers
    3. Recommended practices - Text encoder learning rate, custom captions, dataset repeats, min snr gamma, training set
       creation \

2. Experiments Settings and Results
3. Inference

**Acknowledgements** ❤️: 
The guide outlined in this blog- training scripts, experiments and explorations - were inspired and built upon the 
contributions of [Simo Ryu](https://twitter.com/cloneofsimo?lang=en): [cog-sdxl](https://github.com/replicate/cog-sdxl), 
[Kohya](https://twitter.com/kohya_tech/): [sd-scripts](https://github.com/kohya-ss/sd-scripts), [The Last Ben](https://twitter.com/__TheBen): [fast-stable-diffusion](https://github.com/TheLastBen/fast-stable-diffusion).

<h2>Pivotal Tuning</h2>

[Pivotal Tuning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.05744) is a method that combines training Textual Inversion with regular training. For Dreambooth, it is
customary that you provide a rare token to be your trigger word, say "an sks dog", however, those tokens usually have
other semantic meaning associated with them and can affect your results. The sks example, popular in the community, is
actually associated with a weapons brand.

> To tackle that issue with pivotal tuning, instead of re-using an existing token, we insert new tokens into the text
> encoders of the model - and we optimize these token embeddings to represent the new concept: that is Textual Inversion -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To tackle this issue, we insert new tokens into the text encoders of the model, instead of reusing existing ones.
We then optimize the newly-inserted token embeddings to represent the new concept: that is Textual Inversion –
```

we learn to represent the concept through new "words" in the embedding space. Once we obtain the new token and its
embeddings to represent it, we can train our Dreambooth LoRA with those token embeddings to get the best of both worlds.

**Training**

In our new training script, you can do textual inversion training by providing the following arguments

```
--train_text_encoder_ti
--train_text_encoder_ti_frac=0.5
--token_abstraction="TOK"
--num_new_tokens_per_abstraction=2
--adam_weight_decay_text_encoder
```

> * `train_text_encoder_ti` activates the training the embeddings of new concepts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `train_text_encoder_ti` activates training the embeddings of new concepts
```

* `train_text_encoder_ti_frac` and tells us when to stop optimizing such new concepts. Pivoting halfway is the default

>   value in the cog sdxl example and we have seen good results with it. We encourage experimentation here.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  value in the cog sdxl example and we have seen good results with it. We encourage experimentation here.
```

* `token_abstraction` lets you choose a word to use in your instance prompt, validation prompt or custom captions to
  represent the new tokens being trained. Here we chose TOK. So, for example, "a photo of a TOK" as an instance prompt

>   would then insert the newly trained tokens in place of TOK`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  would then insert the newly trained tokens in place of `TOK`
```

> * `num_new_tokens_per_abstraction` sets up how many new tokens to insert and train its embeddings for each text encoder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `num_new_tokens_per_abstraction` sets up how many new tokens to insert and train for each text encoder
```

>   of the model. The default is set to 2, but you can increase that for complex concepts.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  of the model. The default is set to 2, but you can increase that for complex concepts.
```

> * `Adam_weight_decay_text_encoder` This is used to set a different weight decay value for the text encoder parameters (

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `adam_weight_decay_text_encoder` This is used to set a different weight decay value for the text encoder parameters (
```

  different from the value used for the unet parameters).`

**Inference**

When doing pivotal tuning, besides the `*.safetensors` weights of your LoRA, you also get the `*.safetensors` embeddings

> for the new tokens. In order to do inference with those we add 2 steps to how we would load normally where we:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for the new tokens. In order to do inference with those we add 2 steps to how we would normally load a LoRA:
```

1. Download our trained embeddings from the hub

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```py
```

(for syntax highlighting to work)

import torch

> from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_download, upload_file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_download
```

from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

> from diffusers.models import AutoencoderKL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

from safetensors.torch import load_file
pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(
        "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0",
        torch_dtype=torch.float16,
        variant="fp16",
).to("cuda")

> # normal LoRA loading

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# normal loading
```

```

> 2. Load these into the text encoders

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Load the embeddings into the text encoders
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```py
```

# download embeddings
embedding_path = hf_hub_download(repo_id="LinoyTsaban/web_y2k_lora", filename="embeddings.safetensors", repo_type="model")

# load embeddings to the text encoders
state_dict = load_file(embedding_path)

# load embeddings of text_encoder 1 (CLIP ViT-L/14)

> pipe.load_textual_inversion(state_dict["clip_l"], token=["<s0>", "<s1>"], text_encoder=pipe.text_encoder, tokenizer=pipe.tokenizer)

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I'm following. Are the tokens always `"<s0>"`, `"<s1>"`, etc? If so, maybe we could mention it before, so far we have only mentioned `TOK`. Can `TOK` always be matched to an arbitrary number of tokens?

(maybe `TOK` is not the best name, I like its description as `abstraction`)

Author: For each abstraction provided by the user ("TOK", "TOK2" etc) we map each abstraction to 2 unique tokens in the form of `<si><s_i+1>`. (by abstraction we basically mean the concept identifier used in the captions of the instance images

# load embeddings of text_encoder 2 (CLIP ViT-G/14)
pipe.load_textual_inversion(state_dict["clip_g"], token=["<s0>", "<s1>"], text_encoder=pipe.text_encoder_2, tokenizer=pipe.tokenizer_2)
```

3. Load your LoRA and prompt it!

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```py
```

pipe.load_lora_weights("LinoyTsaban/web_y2k_lora", weight_name="pytorch_lora_weights.safetensors")

> prompt="a <s0><s1> webpage about an astronaut riding a horse"

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this use `TOK`?

Author: I realize now it might be a bit confusing, the thing is that for inference we use <s0><s1> because that is what the model was actually trained on (these are the new tokens we inserted), TOK is just the abstraction chosen by the user to describe the concept in the captions

images = pipe(
    prompt,
    cross_attention_kwargs={"scale": 0.8},
).images

> #your output image

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# your output image
```

images[0]
```

> ![astronaut_web_y2k](.\assets\dreambooth_lora_sdxl\web_y2k_astronaut.png)

Reviewer 2: backslashes won't work (but we have to move them to the dataset anyway)

Reviewer 2: Reminder to update the link.

**Comfy UI / AUTOMATIC1111 Inference:**
The new script fully supports textual inversion loading with Comfy UI and AUTOMATIC1111 formats!

> <h3>AUTOMATIC1111 / SD.Next</h3>

Reviewer 2: Confused between the bold and the heading. I guess the bold line is a subsection, and the `AUTOMATIC1111` and `ComfyUI` are nested inside?

> For AUTOMATIC1111/SD.Next we will load a LoRA and a textual embedding at the same time. For that you can download your `embeddings.safetensors` file from a trained model, rename it (to for example `y2k_emb.safetensors` and include it in your `embeddings` directory. You can also download `diffusers_lora_weights.safetensors` rename it (to for example `y2k.safetensors`) and include it in your `models/lora` directory. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For AUTOMATIC1111/SD.Next we will load a LoRA and a textual embedding at the same time. For that you can download your `embeddings.safetensors` file from a trained model, rename it (to for example `y2k_emb.safetensors` and include it in your `embeddings` directory. You can also download `diffusers_lora_weights.safetensors`, rename it (to for example `y2k.safetensors`) and include it in your `models/lora` directory. 
```

> You can then inference by prompting `a y2k_emb webpage about the movie Mean Girls <lora:y2k:0.9>`. You can use the `y2k_emb` token normally, including increasing its weight by doing `(y2k_emb:1.2)`. 

Reviewer 2: Where was this `y2k_emb` token defined? Is it assigned based on the filename?

Reviewer: Yes, on AUTO1111 and ComfyUI they define the token abstractions based on the filename of the token

<h3>ComfyUI</h3>
For ComfyUI you will include your the trained `embeddings.safetensors` in the `models/embeddings` folder, rename it (to for example `y2k_emb.safetensors`) and use it in your prompts like `embedding:y2k_emb`. [Official guide for loading embeddings](https://comfyanonymous.github.io/ComfyUI_examples/textual_inversion_embeddings/). 

For the LoRA, you will include your trained `diffusers_lora_weights.safetensors` rename it (to for example `y2k.safetensors`) and include it in your `models/lora` directory. Then you will load the LoRALoader node and hook that up with your model and CLIP. [Official guide for loading LoRAs](https://comfyanonymous.github.io/ComfyUI_examples/lora/)
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think these are leftovers, maybe?

state-of-the-art) choices for deep learning tasks are the Adam and AdamW optimizers.

However, they require the user to meddle a lot with the hyperparameters that pave the path to convergence (such as
learning rate, weight decay, etc.). This can result in time-consuming experiments that lead to suboptimal outcomes, and
even if you land on an ideal learning rate, it may still lead to convergence issues if the learning rate is constant
during training. Some parameters may benefit from more frequent updates to expedite convergence, while others may
require smaller adjustments to avoid overshooting the optimal value. To tackle this challenge, algorithms with adaptable
learning rates such as **Adafactor** and [**Prodigy**](https://github.com/konstmish/prodigy) have been introduced. These
methods optimize the algorithm's traversal of the optimization landscape by dynamically adjusting the learning rate for
each parameter based on their past gradients.

We chose to focus a bit more on Prodigy as we think it can be especially beneficial for Dreambooth LoRA training!

**Training**

```
--optimizer="prodigy"
```

When using prodigy it's generally good practice to set-

```

> --learning_rate=1.0

Reviewer 2: 🤯

```

Additional settings that are considered beneficial for diffusion models and specifically LoRA training are:

```
--prodigy_safeguard_warmup=True
--prodigy_use_bias_correction=True
--adam_beta1=0.9
# Note these are set to values different than the default:
--adam_beta2=0.99 

> --adam_weight_decay=0.01

Reviewer 2: These only apply when using AdamW, right? Maybe separate?

Author: actually they also apply when we use [prodigy!](https://github.com/konstmish/prodigy/blob/51e90d411b029129565ff517e73a506953ee1b31/prodigyopt/prodigy.py#L26)

```

There are additional hyper-parameters you can adjust when training with prodigy
(like- `--prodigy_beta3`, `prodigy_decouple`, `prodigy_safeguard_warmup`), we will not delve into those in this post,
but you can learn more about them [here](https://github.com/konstmish/prodigy).

> <h2>More Popular Practices</h2>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<h2>Additional Good Practices</h2>
```

Besides pivotal tuning and adaptive optimizers, here are some additional techniques that can impact the quality of your
trained LoRA, all of them have been incorporated into the new diffusers training script.

> * <h3>separate learning rate for text-encoder and unet</h3>

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't use the heading inside the list, not sure how it will be rendered

  When optimizing the text encoder, it's been perceived by the community that setting different learning rates for it (
  versus the learning rate of the Unet) can lead to better quality results - specifically a **lower** learning rate for
  the text encoder as it tends to overfit _faster_.
    * The importance of different unet and text encoder learning rates is evident when performing pivotal tuning as
      well- in this case, setting a higher learning rate for the text encoder is perceived to be better.

>     * Notice, however, that when using Prodigy (or adaptive optimizers in general) - we start with an identical initial

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Notice, however, that when using Prodigy (or adaptive optimizers in general) we start with an identical initial
```

      learning rate for all trained parameters, and let the optimizer work it's magic ✨

**Training**

```
--train_text_encoder
--learning_rate=1e-4 #unet
--text_encoder_lr=5e-5 
```

```
--train_text_encoder - Enables full text encoder training (i.e. Text Encoders weights are optimized vs. textual inversion (--train_text_encoder_ti) where we optimize embeddings but don't modify the weights)
If you wish the text encoder lr to always match --learning_rate, set --text_encoder_lr=None

```

* <h3>Custom Captioning</h3>

>   While it is possible to achieve good results by training on a set of images all captioned with the same instance
>   prompt, e.g. "photo of a <token> person" or "in the style of <token>" etc. Using the same caption may lead to
>   suboptimal results, depending on the complexity of the learned concept, how "familiar" the model is with the concept,
>   and how well the training set captures it.
>   ![meme](.\assets\dreambooth_lora_sdxl\custom_captions_meme.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  While it is possible to achieve good results by training on a set of images all captioned with the same instance
  prompt, e.g. "photo of a <token> person" or "in the style of <token>" etc, using the same caption may lead to
  suboptimal results, depending on the complexity of the learned concept, how "familiar" the model is with the concept,
  and how well the training set captures it.
  ![meme](.\assets\dreambooth_lora_sdxl\custom_captions_meme.png)
```

**Training**
To use custom captioning, first ensure that you have the datasets library installed, otherwise you can install it by -

```
!pip install datasets
```

To load the custom captions we need our training set directory to follow the structure of a datasets ImageFolder,
containing both the images and the corresponding caption for each image.

* _Option 1_:

>   You choose a dataset from the hub that already contains images and prompts - for example XXX. Now all you have to do

Reviewer 2: `XXX` to be replaced.

  is

```

--dataset_name= 
--caption_column=

```

* _Option 2_:

>   You wish to use your own images and add captions to them. In that case, you can use [this colab notebook]() to

Reviewer 2: Missing link

  automatically caption the images with BLIP, or you can manually create the captions in a metadata file. Then you
  follow up the same way, by specifying `--dataset_name` with your folder path, and `--caption_column` with the column
  name for the captions

* <h3>Min SNR Gamma</h3>

>   Training diffusion models often suffer from slow convergence, partly due to conflicting optimization directions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Training diffusion models often suffers from slow convergence, partly due to conflicting optimization directions
```

       _real images for regularization VS model generated ones_ \
       When choosing class images, you can decide between synthetic ones (i.e. generated by the diffusion model) and
       real ones. In favor of using real images, we can argue they improve the fine-tuned model's realism. On the other
       hand, some will argue that using model generated images better serves the purpose of preserving the models <em>
       knowledge </em>of the class and general aesthetics.</code></strong>
    7. **Celebrity lookalike** - this is more a comment on the captioning/instance prompt used to train. Some fine
       tuners experienced improvements in their results when prompting with a token identifier + a public person that
       the base model knows about that resembles the person they trained on.

**Training** with prior preservation loss

```
--with_prior_preservation
--class_data_dir
--num_class_images
--class_prompt
```

`--with_prior_preservation` - enables training with prior preservation \
`--class_data_dir` - path to folder containing class images\
`—-num_class_images` - Minimal class images for prior preservation loss. If there are not enough images already present

> in --class_data_dir, additional images will be sampled with -class_prompt

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we explain what this is about?

---
title: "LoRA training scripts of the world, unite!"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/dreambooth_lora_sdxl/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: LinoyTsaban
- user: multimodalart
---

# LoRA training scripts of the world, unite!

**A community derived guide to some of the SOTA practices for SD-XL Dreambooth LoRA fine tuning**

**TL;DR**

We combined the Pivotal Tuning technique used on Replicate's SDXL Cog trainer with the Prodigy optimizer used in the

> Kohya trainer (plus a bunch of other optimizations) to achieve very good results on training a Dreambooth LoRA for SDXL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kohya trainer (plus a bunch of other optimizations) to achieve very good results on training Dreambooth LoRAs for SDXL.
```

Just an idea to make it more general.

```

3. Load your LoRA and prompt it!

```py
pipe.load_lora_weights("LinoyTsaban/web_y2k_lora", weight_name="pytorch_lora_weights.safetensors")
prompt="a <s0><s1> webpage about an astronaut riding a horse"
images = pipe(
    prompt,
    cross_attention_kwargs={"scale": 0.8},
).images
# your output image
images[0]
```
![astronaut_web_y2k](.\assets\dreambooth_lora_sdxl\web_y2k_astronaut.png)

**Comfy UI / AUTOMATIC1111 Inference:**
The new script fully supports textual inversion loading with Comfy UI and AUTOMATIC1111 formats!
<h3>AUTOMATIC1111 / SD.Next</h3>
For AUTOMATIC1111/SD.Next we will load a LoRA and a textual embedding at the same time. For that you can download your `embeddings.safetensors` file from a trained model, rename it (to for example `y2k_emb.safetensors` and include it in your `embeddings` directory. You can also download `diffusers_lora_weights.safetensors`, rename it (to for example `y2k.safetensors`) and include it in your `models/lora` directory. 

You can then inference by prompting `a y2k_emb webpage about the movie Mean Girls <lora:y2k:0.9>`. You can use the `y2k_emb` token normally, including increasing its weight by doing `(y2k_emb:1.2)`. 

> ## ComfyUI

Author: how about now?

      learning rate for all trained parameters, and let the optimizer work it's magic ✨

**Training**

```
--train_text_encoder
--learning_rate=1e-4 #unet
--text_encoder_lr=5e-5 
```

```
--train_text_encoder - Enables full text encoder training (i.e. Text Encoders weights are optimized vs. textual inversion (--train_text_encoder_ti) where we optimize embeddings but don't modify the weights)
If you wish the text encoder lr to always match --learning_rate, set --text_encoder_lr=None

```

### Custom Captioning

  While it is possible to achieve good results by training on a set of images all captioned with the same instance
  prompt, e.g. "photo of a <token> person" or "in the style of <token>" etc, using the same caption may lead to
  suboptimal results, depending on the complexity of the learned concept, how "familiar" the model is with the concept,
  and how well the training set captures it.
  ![meme](.\assets\dreambooth_lora_sdxl\custom_captions_meme.png)

**Training**
To use custom captioning, first ensure that you have the datasets library installed, otherwise you can install it by -

```
!pip install datasets
```

> To load the custom captions we need our training set directory to follow the structure of a datasets ImageFolder,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To load the custom captions we need our training set directory to follow the structure of a datasets `ImageFolder`,
```

containing both the images and the corresponding caption for each image.

* _Option 1_:
  You choose a dataset from the hub that already contains images and prompts - for example [LinoyTsaban/3d_icon](https://huggingface.co/datasets/LinoyTsaban/3d_icon). Now all you have to do
  is specify the name of the dataset and the name of the caption column (in this case it's "prompt") in your training arguments: 

```

--dataset_name=LinoyTsaban/3d_icon
--caption_column=prompt

```

* _Option 2_:
  You wish to use your own images and add captions to them. In that case, you can use [this colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/SDXL_Dreambooth_LoRA_advanced_example.ipynb) to
  automatically caption the images with BLIP, or you can manually create the captions in a metadata file. Then you
  follow up the same way, by specifying `--dataset_name` with your folder path, and `--caption_column` with the column

>   name for the captions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  name for the captions.
```

> ### Min SNR Gamma weighting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Min-SNR Gamma weighting
```

  Training diffusion models often suffers from slow convergence, partly due to conflicting optimization directions
  between timesteps. [Hang et al.](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.09556) found a way to mitigate this issue by introducing
  the simple Min-SNR-gamma approach. This method adapts loss weights of timesteps based on clamped signal-to-noise
  ratios, which effectively balances the conflicts among timesteps.
    * For small datasets, the effects of Min-SNR weighting strategy might not appear to be pronounced, but for larger
      datasets, the effects will likely be more pronounced.
    * `snr vis`
      _find [this project on Weights and Biases](https://wandb.ai/sayakpaul/text2image-finetune-minsnr) that compares
      the loss surfaces of the following setups: snr_gamma set to 5.0, 1.0 and None._

**Training**

> To use min snr gamma, set a value for:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use Min-SNR gamma, set a value for:
```

```
--snr_gamma=5.0
```

By default `--snr_gamma=None`, I.e. not used. When enabling `--snr_gamma`, the recommended value is 5.0.

* ### Repeats
  This argument refers to the number of times an image from your dataset is repeated in the training set. This differs
  from epochs in that first the images are repeated, and only then shuffled.

> ![meme](.\assets\dreambooth_lora_sdxl\snr_gamma_effect.png)

Reviewer 2: Link to be replaced.

   create an ambiguous notion of what is the face we're training on.
3. **Close-up photos** are important to achieve realism, however good full-body shots should also be included to
   improve the ability to generalize to different poses/compositions.
4. We recommend **avoiding photos where the subject is far away**, as most pixels in such images are not related to
   the concept we wish to optimize on, there's not much for the model to learn from these.
5. Avoid repeating backgrounds/clothing/poses - aim for **variety** in terms of lighting, poses, backgrounds, and
   facial expressions. The greater the diversity, the more flexible and generalizable the LoRA would be.
6. **Prior preservation loss** -  
   Prior preservation loss is a method that uses a 
   model’s own generated samples to help 
   it learn how to generate more diverse images. 
   Because these sample images belong to the same class as 
   the images you provided, they help the model retain what it has learned about 
   the class and how it can use what it already knows about the class to make new 
   compositions.

>    **_real images for regularization VS model generated ones_** \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   **_real images for regularization VS model generated ones_**
```

   When choosing class images, you can decide between synthetic ones (i.e. generated by the diffusion model) and
   real ones. In favor of using real images, we can argue they improve the fine-tuned model's realism. On the other
   hand, some will argue that using model generated images better serves the purpose of preserving the models <em>

>    knowledge </em>of the class and general aesthetics.</code></strong>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   knowledge </em>of the class and general aesthetics.
```

7. **Celebrity lookalike** - this is more a comment on the captioning/instance prompt used to train. Some fine
   tuners experienced improvements in their results when prompting with a token identifier + a public person that
   the base model knows about that resembles the person they trained on.

**Training** with prior preservation loss

```
--with_prior_preservation
--class_data_dir
--num_class_images
--class_prompt
```

`--with_prior_preservation` - enables training with prior preservation \
`--class_data_dir` - path to folder containing class images\

> `—-num_class_images` - Minimal class images for prior preservation loss. If there are not enough images already present

Reviewer 2: I suppose the idea is to render as new lines, but I'm not sure the backslash will do that.

Author: hmm it seems to work when using the md preview in pycharm, is it not guaranteed to act the same?

and early 2000s that we (nostalgically) scraped from the internet.

This example showcases a slightly different behaviour than the previous. 
While in both cases we used approximately the same amount of images (i.e. ~30), 
we noticed that for this style LoRA, the same settings that induced good results for the Huggy LoRA, are overfitting for the webpage style.

Configurations:
```
–rank = 4,16,32
-optimizer = prodigy, adamW
-repeats = 1,2,3
-learning_rate = 1.0 (Prodigy), 1e-4 (AdamW)
-text_encoder_lr = 1.0 (Prodigy), 3e-4, 5e-5 (AdamW)
-snr_gamma = None, 5.0 
-train_batch_size = 1, 2, 3, 4
-max_train_steps = 500, 1000, 1500
-text_encoder_training = regular finetuning, pivotal tuning
```
`*assets- Web Y2K*`

**Face LoRA**
* Linoy face Datasets 
  * v1 - 7 close up photos taken at the same time 
  * v1.5 - 16 close up photos taken at different occasions (changing backgrounds, lighting and outfits)
  * v2 - 13 close up photos and fully body shots taken at different occasions (changing backgrounds, lighting and outfits)

When experimenting with face images, we aim for the LoRA to generate images as realistic and similar to the original person as possible,

> while in the same time being able to generalize well to backgrounds and compositions that were not seen in the training set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
while at the same time being able to generalize well to backgrounds and compositions that were not seen in the training set.
```

> When comparing between different hyperparam configurations on the v1 set and v1.5 we noticed 

Reviewer 2: Is this sentence complete? What did we notice?

# load embeddings of text_encoder 1 (CLIP ViT-L/14)
pipe.load_textual_inversion(state_dict["clip_l"], token=["<s0>", "<s1>"], text_encoder=pipe.text_encoder, tokenizer=pipe.tokenizer)
# load embeddings of text_encoder 2 (CLIP ViT-G/14)
pipe.load_textual_inversion(state_dict["clip_g"], token=["<s0>", "<s1>"], text_encoder=pipe.text_encoder_2, tokenizer=pipe.tokenizer_2)
```

3. Load your LoRA and prompt it!

```py
pipe.load_lora_weights("LinoyTsaban/web_y2k_lora", weight_name="pytorch_lora_weights.safetensors")
prompt="a <s0><s1> webpage about an astronaut riding a horse"
images = pipe(
    prompt,
    cross_attention_kwargs={"scale": 0.8},
).images
# your output image
images[0]
```

  <figure class="image table text-center m-0 w-full">
    <image
        style="max-width: 50%; margin: auto;"
        src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/web_y2k_astronaut.png"
    ></image>
  </figure>

## Comfy UI / AUTOMATIC1111 Inference
The new script fully supports textual inversion loading with Comfy UI and AUTOMATIC1111 formats!

**AUTOMATIC1111 / SD.Next** \

> For AUTOMATIC1111/SD.Next we will load a LoRA and a textual embedding at the same time. For that you can download your `embeddings.safetensors` file from a trained model, rename it (to for example `y2k_emb.safetensors` and include it in your `embeddings` directory. You can also download `diffusers_lora_weights.safetensors`, rename it (to for example `y2k.safetensors`) and include it in your `models/lora` directory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For AUTOMATIC1111/SD.Next we will load a LoRA and a textual embedding at the same time. 
- *LoRA*: Besides the diffusers format, the script will also train a WebUI compatible LoRA. It is generated as `{your_lora_name}.safetensors`. You can then include it in your `models/Lora` directory. 
- *Embedding*: the embedding is the same for diffusers and WebUI. You can download your `{lora_name}_emb.safetensors` file from a trained model, and include it in your `embeddings` directory. 
```

# load embeddings of text_encoder 1 (CLIP ViT-L/14)
pipe.load_textual_inversion(state_dict["clip_l"], token=["<s0>", "<s1>"], text_encoder=pipe.text_encoder, tokenizer=pipe.tokenizer)
# load embeddings of text_encoder 2 (CLIP ViT-G/14)
pipe.load_textual_inversion(state_dict["clip_g"], token=["<s0>", "<s1>"], text_encoder=pipe.text_encoder_2, tokenizer=pipe.tokenizer_2)
```

3. Load your LoRA and prompt it!

```py
pipe.load_lora_weights("LinoyTsaban/web_y2k_lora", weight_name="pytorch_lora_weights.safetensors")
prompt="a <s0><s1> webpage about an astronaut riding a horse"
images = pipe(
    prompt,
    cross_attention_kwargs={"scale": 0.8},
).images
# your output image
images[0]
```

  <figure class="image table text-center m-0 w-full">
    <image
        style="max-width: 50%; margin: auto;"
        src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/web_y2k_astronaut.png"
    ></image>
  </figure>

## Comfy UI / AUTOMATIC1111 Inference
The new script fully supports textual inversion loading with Comfy UI and AUTOMATIC1111 formats!

**AUTOMATIC1111 / SD.Next** \

> For AUTOMATIC1111/SD.Next we will load a LoRA and a textual embedding at the same time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AUTOMATIC1111/SD.Next we will load a LoRA and a textual embedding at the same time. 
```

- *LoRA*: Besides the diffusers format, the script will also train a WebUI compatible LoRA. It is generated as `{your_lora_name}.safetensors`. You can then include it in your `models/Lora` directory. 
- *Embedding*: the embedding is the same for diffusers and WebUI. You can download your `{lora_name}_emb.safetensors` file from a trained model, and include it in your `embeddings` directory. 

You can then inference by prompting `a y2k_emb webpage about the movie Mean Girls <lora:y2k:0.9>`. You can use the `y2k_emb` token normally, including increasing its weight by doing `(y2k_emb:1.2)`. 

**ComfyUI** \

> For ComfyUI you will include your the trained `embeddings.safetensors` in the `models/embeddings` folder, rename it (to for example `y2k_emb.safetensors`) and use it in your prompts like `embedding:y2k_emb`. [Official guide for loading embeddings](https://comfyanonymous.github.io/ComfyUI_examples/textual_inversion_embeddings/). 
> 
> For the LoRA, you will include your trained `diffusers_lora_weights.safetensors` rename it (to for example `y2k.safetensors`) and include it in your `models/lora` directory. Then you will load the LoRALoader node and hook that up with your model and CLIP. [Official guide for loading LoRAs](https://comfyanonymous.github.io/ComfyUI_examples/lora/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In ComfyUI we will load a LoRA and a textual embedding at the same time. 
- *LoRA*: Besides the diffusers format, the script will also train a ComfyUI compatible LoRA. It is generated as `{your_lora_name}.safetensors`. You can then include it in your `models/Lora` directory. Then you will load the LoRALoader node and hook that up with your model and CLIP. [Official guide for loading LoRAs](https://comfyanonymous.github.io/ComfyUI_examples/lora/)
- *Embedding*: the embedding is the same for diffusers and WebUI. You can download your `{lora_name}_emb.safetensors` file from a trained model, and include it in your `models/embeddings` directory and use it in your prompts like `embedding:y2k_emb`. [Official guide for loading embeddings](https://comfyanonymous.github.io/ComfyUI_examples/textual_inversion_embeddings/). 
```

pipe.load_lora_weights("LinoyTsaban/web_y2k_lora", weight_name="pytorch_lora_weights.safetensors")
prompt="a <s0><s1> webpage about an astronaut riding a horse"
images = pipe(
    prompt,
    cross_attention_kwargs={"scale": 0.8},
).images
# your output image
images[0]
```

  <figure class="image table text-center m-0 w-full">
    <image
        style="max-width: 50%; margin: auto;"
        src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/web_y2k_astronaut.png"
    ></image>
  </figure>

## Comfy UI / AUTOMATIC1111 Inference
The new script fully supports textual inversion loading with Comfy UI and AUTOMATIC1111 formats!

**AUTOMATIC1111 / SD.Next** \
In AUTOMATIC1111/SD.Next we will load a LoRA and a textual embedding at the same time. 
- *LoRA*: Besides the diffusers format, the script will also train a WebUI compatible LoRA. It is generated as `{your_lora_name}.safetensors`. You can then include it in your `models/Lora` directory. 
- *Embedding*: the embedding is the same for diffusers and WebUI. You can download your `{lora_name}_emb.safetensors` file from a trained model, and include it in your `embeddings` directory. 

> You can then inference by prompting `a y2k_emb webpage about the movie Mean Girls <lora:y2k:0.9>`. You can use the `y2k_emb` token normally, including increasing its weight by doing `(y2k_emb:1.2)`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can then run inference by prompting `a y2k_emb webpage about the movie Mean Girls <lora:y2k:0.9>`. You can use the `y2k_emb` token normally, including increasing its weight by doing `(y2k_emb:1.2)`. 
```

  between timesteps. [Hang et al.](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.09556) found a way to mitigate this issue by introducing
  the simple Min-SNR-gamma approach. This method adapts loss weights of timesteps based on clamped signal-to-noise
  ratios, which effectively balances the conflicts among timesteps.
    * For small datasets, the effects of Min-SNR weighting strategy might not appear to be pronounced, but for larger
      datasets, the effects will likely be more pronounced.
    * `snr vis`
      _find [this project on Weights and Biases](https://wandb.ai/sayakpaul/text2image-finetune-minsnr) that compares
      the loss surfaces of the following setups: snr_gamma set to 5.0, 1.0 and None._
  <figure class="image table text-center m-0 w-full">
    <image
        style="max-width: 70%; margin: auto;"
        src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/snr_gamma_effect.png"
    ></image>
  </figure>

**Training**

To use Min-SNR gamma, set a value for:

```
--snr_gamma=5.0
```

By default `--snr_gamma=None`, I.e. not used. When enabling `--snr_gamma`, the recommended value is 5.0.

> * ### Repeats

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Repeats
```
